# Meeting Briefs

Date: May 03 2020
Topic: Dissertation Feedbacks

## Project selection
select projects that have “Python'” and “library”/“module” in their descriptions. In this way, I filtered out many projects which don't have a description. Alternative data: use released projects from PyPI (The Python Package Index) that can be mapped back to GitHub contribution data. (dataset: PyPI Ecosystem)

## Author selection
selected authors who contribute to 1 project at most in a month in order to use dynamic discrete-choice framework. This could explain why the estimated base-level utilities of contributing to the top 2 past projects are negative. These “casual” authors might have different preferences from “core” authors. Alternative approach: could use a narrower time window, such as a day instead of a month.

## Demand side of the market
- download data can be found for released projects from PyPI (2016-01 to 2018-08), thus it is possible to discuss the usage from the demand side of the open source softwares market.
- In addition, the PyPI dataset also has dependency relationships among packages (which other packages does the package use). So we can also discuss how packages dependency affects contribution choice. For example, packages that have many downstream packages could attract more developers. Could also create an input-output matrix (like in trade literature) to describe the production of packages?
- Two reasons for thinking about demand . . gives derived preferences for authors . . . provides a more intuitive framework for doing public policy analysis

## Social welfare
- what is the max social welfare if we sum up all developers' utility? Combining both demand side (e.g. download count) and production side of the market, what is the equilibrium, what is the distribution of authors under social optimum?
- Growth of the open source market: can the market evolve to an ergodic state with authors sorting and selecting projects? What if the market has an aggregate shock?
- Think of more implementable policies.
- Ripple effect with temporary counterfactual policy.

## Estimation
- Correct for standard deviation of the estimation.
- Job/Career information of developers, any alternative data sources?
- Contribution activities in other languages: alternative use of time (How much value of Python should be in order for them to contribute to Python?...)
- Also, how do we aggregate choices?
- We should think about starting with parameterized CCPs and then proceed to infer the structural parameters.
- The CCPs and the transitions by themselves give the evolution of the states under the current regime.
Only the baseline utility is necessary to compute the counterfactuals.
